.TH HOME-APPLIANCES 1 "2026-04-19" "1.0.0" "Home Appliances CLI"
.SH NAME
home-appliances \- control home appliances from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B home-appliances
[\fIOPTION\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fISUBCOMMAND\fR] [\fIIP\fR] [\fIARGS\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B home-appliances
is a command-line tool for controlling home appliances on the local network.
It supports Gree air conditioner units (UDP port 7000, AES-128-ECB, LAN v2 protocol),
Roborock robot vacuum cleaners (UDP port 54321, miio/AES-128-CBC),
Samsung smart TVs (TCP port 55000, legacy protocol),
and Brother network printers (UDP port 161, SNMPv1).
.PP
.B Device discovery:
Gree AC units are auto-discovered via UDP broadcast on the configured subnet
(see
.B CONFIGURATION
below).
Roborock, Samsung TV and Brother printer do
.I not
support broadcast discovery \[em] their IP address must be supplied manually
(find it in the router's DHCP table or with
.BR "nmap \-sn <network>" ).
.PP
After the first
.B ac bind
or
.B vacuum status
command the device credentials are cached in
.I ~/.config/home-appliances/
and do not need to be re-entered.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS General
.TP
.B list
Broadcast-scan for Gree AC units on the local network and print the results.
Other device types do not have auto-discovery; supply their IP directly.
.TP
.B version
Print the program version and exit.
.TP
.B help
Print a help summary and exit.
.SS AC (Gree)
.TP
.BI "ac list"
Broadcast-scan for Gree AC units on the subnet defined in
.IR config.ini .
Found devices are merged with the local device store.
.TP
.BI "ac bind " IP
Pair with the Gree AC unit at
.I IP
and save the device key to
.I ~/.config/home-appliances/gree_devices
for subsequent commands.
.TP
.BI "ac status " IP
Print the full status of the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "ac temp " IP
Print the current room temperature reported by the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "ac on " IP
Turn the AC unit at
.I IP
on.
.TP
.BI "ac off " IP
Turn the AC unit at
.I IP
off.
.TP
.BI "ac set " IP " " TEMP
Set the target temperature of the AC unit at
.I IP
to
.I TEMP
degrees Celsius.
.TP
.BI "ac swing-v " IP " " MODE
Set vertical swing mode of the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I MODE
is one of:
.BR default ,
.BR fixed ,
.BR full ,
.BR top ,
.BR mid-top ,
.BR mid ,
.BR mid-bot ,
.BR bot .
.TP
.BI "ac swing-h " IP " " MODE
Set horizontal swing mode of the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I MODE
is one of:
.BR default ,
.BR fixed ,
.BR full ,
.BR left ,
.BR mid-left ,
.BR mid ,
.BR mid-right ,
.BR right .
.TP
.BI "ac xfan " IP " " STATE
Enable or disable the xfan (dry-out) feature on the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I STATE
is
.B on
or
.BR off .
.TP
.BI "ac health " IP " " STATE
Enable or disable the health (ionizer) feature on the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I STATE
is
.B on
or
.BR off .
.TP
.BI "ac air " IP " " STATE
Enable or disable the fresh air feature on the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I STATE
is
.B on
or
.BR off .
.TP
.BI "ac antifrost " IP " " STATE
Enable or disable the anti-frost protection on the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I STATE
is
.B on
or
.BR off .
.TP
.BI "ac unit " IP " " UNIT
Set the temperature display unit on the AC unit at
.IR IP .
.I UNIT
is
.B celsius
or
.BR fahrenheit .
.SS Vacuum (Roborock)
IP address must be supplied manually (no broadcast discovery).
The token is obtained automatically from the device on first contact and cached in
.IR ~/.config/home-appliances/roborock_devices .
.TP
.BI "vacuum status " IP
Print the current status of the robot vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum consumables " IP
Print the consumable levels (brush, filter, etc.) of the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum start " IP
Start a full cleaning run on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum stop " IP
Stop the current cleaning run on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum pause " IP
Pause the current cleaning run on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum dock " IP
Send the vacuum at
.I IP
back to its docking station.
.TP
.BI "vacuum spot " IP
Start a spot-cleaning run on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum find " IP
Play a locate sound on the vacuum at
.I IP
to help find it.
.TP
.BI "vacuum fan " IP " " LEVEL
Set the fan speed level on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.I LEVEL
is one of:
.BR silent ,
.BR balanced ,
.BR turbo ,
.BR max ,
.BR gentle .
.TP
.BI "vacuum reset-brush " IP
Reset the main brush consumable counter on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum reset-side-brush " IP
Reset the side brush consumable counter on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum reset-filter " IP
Reset the filter consumable counter on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "vacuum reset-sensor " IP
Reset the sensor consumable counter on the vacuum at
.IR IP .
.SS TV (Samsung)
IP address must be supplied manually (no broadcast discovery).
On first connection the TV may display a pairing prompt; accept it on the TV screen.
.TP
.BI "tv probe " IP
Probe the Samsung TV at
.I IP
and print device information.
.TP
.BI "tv key " IP " " "KEY ..."
Send one or more remote control key presses to the TV at
.IR IP
(300 ms gap between keys).
.I KEY
is any Samsung remote key name, e.g.\&
.BR KEY_POWER ,
.BR KEY_VOLUMEUP ,
.BR KEY_HOME .
.TP
.BI "tv volup " IP " [" N ]
Increase the volume by
.I N
steps (default 1) on the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv voldown " IP " [" N ]
Decrease the volume by
.I N
steps (default 1) on the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv mute " IP
Toggle mute on the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv power " IP
Toggle the power state of the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv off " IP
Turn off the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv source " IP
Switch the input source on the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv hdmi " IP " " NUM
Switch to HDMI input number
.I NUM
on the TV at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "tv channel " IP " " CH
Tune the TV at
.I IP
to channel number
.IR CH .
.SS Printer (Brother)
IP address must be supplied manually (no broadcast discovery).
.TP
.BI "printer probe " IP
Probe the Brother printer at
.I IP
and print model information.
.TP
.BI "printer status " IP " [" \-\-quiet ]
Print the current status of the printer at
.IR IP
(state, toner level, page count).
With
.BR \-\-quiet ,
exits with code 2 if the printer reports a warning or error condition.
.TP
.BI "printer toner " IP " [" \-\-raw ]
Print the toner level of the printer at
.IR IP
as a percentage.
With
.BR \-\-raw ,
print the raw integer value instead.
.TP
.BI "printer pages " IP
Print the total page counter of the printer at
.IR IP .
.TP
.BI "printer consumables " IP
Print toner, drum and maintenance kit levels of the printer at
.IR IP .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose ", " \-\-debug ", " \-d
Enable verbose output. Additional diagnostic messages are printed to standard error.
May be placed before any command.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the program version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print a help summary and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.IR ~/.config/home-appliances/config.ini .
The file is created with defaults on first run if it does not exist.
.PP
.B Keys:
.TP
.B network
The subnet used for Gree AC broadcast discovery, in CIDR notation.
Default:
.BR 192.168.1.0/24 .
.TP
.B iface
The network interface name (informational; used for display only).
Default:
.BR wlan0 .
.TP
.B discovery_timeout_ms
How long to wait for responses during a broadcast scan, in milliseconds.
Default:
.BR 5000 .
.PP
Example
.IR config.ini :
.PP
.RS
.EX
network=192.168.0.0/24
iface=eth0
discovery_timeout_ms=3000
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/home-appliances/config.ini
Main configuration file (network subnet, interface, scan timeout).
.TP
.I ~/.config/home-appliances/gree_devices
Cached Gree AC device list (IP, MAC, device key). Mode 0600.
Updated by
.B ac list
and
.BR "ac bind" .
.TP
.I ~/.config/home-appliances/roborock_devices
Cached Roborock device list (IP, token, device ID). Mode 0600.
Updated automatically on first
.B vacuum
command.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
General error (invalid arguments, network failure, device unreachable, etc.).
.TP
.B 2
Device warning/error state. Only returned by
.B "printer status \-\-quiet"
when the printer reports a non-OK condition.
.SH EXAMPLES
Discover Gree AC units on the configured subnet:
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances ac list
.EE
.RE
.PP
Bind to an AC unit, then set it to 22 °C in cool mode:
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances ac bind 192.168.1.50
home-appliances ac set 192.168.1.50 temp=22 mode=cool
.EE
.RE
.PP
Check vacuum status (token is cached automatically):
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances vacuum status 192.168.1.70
.EE
.RE
.PP
Find devices not supported by auto-discovery:
.PP
.RS
.EX
nmap -sn 192.168.1.0/24
.EE
.RE
.PP
Send the robot vacuum to its dock:
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances vacuum dock 192.168.1.70
.EE
.RE
.PP
Send multiple key presses to the TV:
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances tv key 192.168.1.80 KEY_HOME KEY_UP KEY_ENTER
.EE
.RE
.PP
Check printer toner level with verbose output:
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances -v printer toner 192.168.1.90
.EE
.RE
.PP
Check printer status silently (exit 2 if warning):
.PP
.RS
.EX
home-appliances printer status --quiet 192.168.1.90
.EE
.RE
.PP
Change the scan subnet (edit config, no recompile needed):
.PP
.RS
.EX
echo 'network=10.0.0.0/24' >> ~/.config/home-appliances/config.ini
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmap (1),
.BR avahi-browse (1),
.BR snmpget (1)
